>> Kent C. Dodds: All righty,
so let's get this primer going.
Switch over to exercises,
npm t to run the tests.
And.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
there are a couple of things that we need.
So the first thing, I need to determine
whether or not my state is controlled.
So specifically my on state.
So we can isOnControlled.
And because I'm going to
be the one calling it,
I'm not passing as a callback or anything.
I can make this a regular method.
I don't have to do the whole
arrow function thing.
So, regular old method.
And I'll return this.props.
Well, here,
I kinda gave you the answer right there.
That's what Money Bag Marty
is all about is the answers.
So then we'll add a getState function and
this will return an object.
And that has the on property,
is this.isOnControlled,
so if it is controlled,
where will you get it?
>> off screen male: Props.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Props.
Otherwise, this.state.on.
Great.
So we got those two taken care of.
And then in our toggle, if, actually here,
before we do that let's update down here.
Instead of, actually pretty
much everywhere we'll use this.state
we're gonna wanna use this.
Except for where we're actually at.
Okay, just be these two places,
this.getState.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Cuz now they
can come from either place.
Okay, cool.
So then, if this.isControlled or
isOnControlled
then we're simply going to
call this with our suggestion.
So we're saying, hey, if it were me,
I would update it like this.
Our suggestion is to update it to be
the inverse of what it currently is.
Otherwise, I'm gonna manage it myself and
update my own state.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
that gets our test passing.
Okay, so that's control props.
I'm not sure exactly how the input
component in React is implemented.
But I'd like to imagine or dream or
make up that it works like this.
[LAUGH] Something like this, anyway.
So what questions do you
have about this pattern?
>> Kent C. Dodds: This is
actually a very common pattern.
It's been.
Yeah, people.
I mean, this is beginning of React stuff.
Definitely useful stuff.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So in some ways, it's
actually similar to state initializers,
because you could actually use this to
not only control but initialize state.
And then you just on change,
or in this case, on toggle,
you just keep the parent state updated.
And so combining this with state
initializers is good because it allows
people to either initialize it or
entirely control it.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, cool.
So let's go ahead and
jump into the elaboration.
So Marios online is saying, why don't
we use componentWillReceiveProps for
this and
update state in there accordingly?
I'm actually glad that he asked,
he or she asked that.
So that is actually called
synchronizing state.
Sychronizing state with props.
So componentWillReceiveProps.
And you say, like if the next
props has the on property,
then this.setState on is
whatever that value is.
So that would simplify some things but
complicate others.
Because now you have two sources
of truth in your component.
And it becomes a little
harder to maintain.
So in general, it's, yeah,
it's just make things a lot easier.
In addition,
this is actually a deprecated method.
[LAUGH] So, you could use
getDerivedStateFromProps and actually you
could implement these with that as well,
the new replacement for this use case.
But I've found that it's a lot simpler to
just have a single source of truth for
where your state is coming from and
it makes the rest of
the implementation simpler.
Hopefully that answers the question.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, cool.
So yeah, one person,
please tell me what you learned.
>> off screen male: I learned that if the
[LAUGH] you can't just do a simple Boolean
check on this prop set on
if it is uncontrolled.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay.
>> off screen male: Cuz then it'll
set to false.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yes.
>> off screen male: So
we need to explicitly check for undefined.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, you wanna check for undefined.
You might also do like null, like maybe
null means I don't wanna control it.
But I actually like people being
able to control it with null, so.
But yeah, good, good point.
Okay, that was one.
So thanks.
You get a high five.